hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast production of
neonewstoday.com
i'm your host dylan grabowski this
episode of the smart economy podcast is
part of the inaugural series focusing on
decentralized autonomous organizations
better known as daos in the fourth and
final episode of the dao series i chat
with andrew redden a journeyman
developer in the ethereum ecosystem
throughout his time in ethereum andrew
has worked on various projects but we
specifically honed in on his experience
with daos as a founding member of
pleaser dao pleaser dao is a collective
of d5 leaders
early nft collectors and digital artists
who created an online community to
acquire culturally significant pieces of
artwork examples of items the dao has
acquired include the doge nft
the one-of-one copy of wu-tang clans
once upon a time in shaolin album
and edward snowden's genesis nft among
others in this conversation andrew and i
discuss his background as a developer in
the eth ecosystem and why he focuses on
building there his perspective of what
dows are what one should consider when
championing a proposal in a dow the
process and emotions of purchasing items
at auction and much more just the
reminder nothing said on this podcast is
a solicitation to buy or sell any tokens
that nothing should be taken as
financial advice and that the host or
guests may hold tokens discussed in any
given episode i want to make a quick
note that i addressed andrew by his
twitter handle at the beginning of the
episode not by his first and last name
with that said i really enjoyed chatting
with andrew and i hope you enjoy the
conversation too
hey everyone thanks and welcome to the
smart economy podcast today i'm super
excited to introduce andrew lloyd how
are you doing andrew hey everybody i'm
doing great thanks for having me on i'm
really excited about this one should be
good yeah you know i haven't worked with
andrew or met him in person like some
other people have joined the pod but
we've been following each other on
twitter for a long time and andrew has
like one of the coolest avatars it's
it's a cat with a psychedelic background
that
uh moves
so i was drawn to that and like i've
always been psyched to see your really
cool avatar uh unfortunately we can't
get those today did you
install that in like 2013 or something
yeah 2010 i think it's been i've had it
for a long time it's like become my
twitter persona but yeah they i remember
reading of all places i think it was
like a buzzfeed article or something and
they just mentioned that you know
twitter is closing the gift loophole in
a few weeks and if you want a gift like
now it's your last chance to get it and
i wasn't like the first thing i did but
i remember like bookmarking and like oh
i'm going to do this eventually
and then
yeah it just like came across it one
last time
i had that all the steps needed to do
that funny enough it was like
it's not like click and upload a gif you
had to like modify the gif change the
alpha channels do a number of things to
like hit the twitter requirements for
actually uploading but uh yeah and then
i just looked up you know silly gifts
and the cat gift was literally the first
one that popped up on a page of like you
know hundreds of gifts and so i was just
like okay well i guess that's my twitter
profile and see if that works uploaded
it you know here we are uh over a decade
later and it's still what i rock online
yeah you can't change that because um
nobody can upload any moving files
anymore moving images so you're stuck
with it forever until you're ready to
part with it so in preparing for this
interview i took a peek at your github
repository or your github profile and
i noticed lots of ethereum development
uh which pretty much started around 2017
2018 so can you just give us um a
background of who you are what you do
and kind of your experience coding in
the ethereum ecosystem yeah sure
it's funny there's a lot of stuff
selling private repos from way back in
the day but i i've been like i'll
basically give the whole like tl dr me
i've been online since 1993 kind of like
the birth of the internet public access
uh you know i started got my start
earlier that was like bbs but you know
you know a young seven-year-old me just
kind of cruising around the web um so
i've seen all aspects of the web i've
been building in the web since like 1.0
all the way through 2.0 you know got my
start in crypto back in 2010 and you
know jumped into the bitcoin ecosystem
was one of the first people in my area
kind of like pushing this narrative and
i literally stumbled across the bitcoin
white paper literally by accident and i
say stumble upon because there was this
old service you could just like click a
button you need to go to random websites
and literally one day it was just the
white paper and so i read it and was
completely captivated by it i remember
trying to explain it to my dad like
didn't truly i knew that i understood
but not enough to like to sell it to an
individual who doesn't understand like
some of the core primitives of it
and uh yeah i've been obsessed with
cryptocurrencies ever since
you know became a software developer you
know partially be
by my own like hack and slash mentality
but also in the school for uh
originally networking of all things i
was a big fan of distributed systems uh
all throughout my youth and building
networks for as long as i can remember
and then realized i had a really good
affinity for software development and so
kind of switch gears midway through and
you know transition to the programming
aspect of my of my education and then
ever since then i've just been you know
working one starter pack together
and uh yeah around 2016 i was working
for a sports tech company and we were
building a
large scale data processor processing
aggregation and reporting uh software
for
the uh basically every major sports team
you know all the different leagues
and uh yeah happened to meet my
co-founder uh scott and well my previous
co-founder scott and at a meet-up and
you know he was in the blockchain i was
in the blockchain he was you know we
both kind of like learned about ethereum
at the time this would be like you know
i think this might have been like uh
mid-2016 i think at the time
and uh yeah we just kind of connected
and then he wrote a white paper for a
system called hypergive
and so it's crowdfunded digital food
wallets basically built like backed on
ethereum and so smart contract based
wallets have you know rules and
permissions around how you can spend on
your assets like maybe on certain goods
we entered it into the the time it was
like the global blockchain development
hackathon uh put on by the united way
remembrance and so we were fortunate
enough to be chosen as one of the
finalists so early 2017 we went off to
dubai
and participated in the world government
summit we didn't win first place but we
got an award for our innovation uh which
is called the year of giving awards 2017
was the year of giving and that kind of
just like catapulted my blockchain
development career you know i'd written
some bitcoin scripts and did some early
stuff back in the day of bitcoin but i
found really early on like i was wanting
to do more than what the bitcoin you
know technology would allow you to do
and so i kind of was always thirsting
for that next that next narrative like
what's coming and then having
gone through and you know been building
software professionally for a number of
years at this point in time when
ethereum came on the scene it was like
that aha moment for me and so we spent
the rest of like 2017
we launched the company
we were toying with the idea of like
taking hypergive you know the full the
full way we met with the un in a number
of things around that capacity around
how this would work specifically for the
migrant crisis that was going on shortly
after arab spring and trying to figure
out how we could provide you know value
tractable value cross-border payments
kind of thing but that ultimately led us
to
uh like a dead end on that just we
realized that the overall scale and you
know the challenge to actually meet this
was was going to be like really
challenging like raising capital the
time this is pre-icos and i guess like
you know they they came shortly after
but when you're trying to raise money
for a product that is focused on the
social economy and taking care of people
and that stuff you really need to have
like a really concrete business model on
how you're going to generate revenue and
profit and at the time like everything
else just started exploding in the ico
space you know this is like late 2017
and so we kind of like
refocused our efforts we built a
subscription service uh that was all
around the ico
like acquisition space
uh that exploded we you know went viral
uh we ended up getting into tech stars
in the back of the idea and then and
did that accelerator uh and in mid
accelerator we pivoted to a service
called groundhog which was like
subscription payments and so yeah i've
been building the space for a long time
you know we ran groundhog for a solid
two years
uh shipped a bunch of cool stuff their
rate of debt in production gas prices
started becoming you know exorbitant and
that was really when i started to take a
hard look at the space and kind of
figure out you know what's what what's
coming
and uh
and then i spent i would say probably a
solid like you know two years post
groundhog just kind of like trying to
figure out what what what what was next
it's the middle of defy was starting to
be born you know early days of things i
did a year at gitcoin uh help them out
with some of their other technology
adoption for some distributed system
work some stuff around their
grants stuff like that along the way i
was an author of ei co-author story of
eip1337
which is the subscriptions reoccurring
payments standard kevin milwaukee a
number of people austin griffith number
of players in the space were
participants of that eip as well
and then
yeah d5 summer happened and it was crazy
breaking into different aspects of defy
like lending markets yield farming all
these different pieces of technology and
really started just to hack and slash my
way through things and try to experiment
with a whole lot of stuff and try to you
know most importantly was like just
trying to figure where the ball is going
like a lot of this stuff is being built
at an incredibly rapid pace but
none of it's really like mature or
crystallized like every new day you know
you may remember the the food farming
ponzi experience we had it's part of d
by summer sushi started and that was
four con four con four con four yeah i
was like
went from being risk on to risk off
around that time and realized that i
didn't truly understand a lot of the
technical aspects of what the innovation
was like really trying to like
crystallize around and so
i spent i would say a solid year while
kind of like uh working contract for
bitcoin you know really delving into the
tech and just trying to like grind out
my solidity skills and just try to
really understand like evm mechanics and
what's actually happening at like that
higher level like of course you've
always liked read the white papers and
the technical papers and had a good
understanding but you know until you've
been trying to deploy a lot of your own
capital through things and and what goes
on it's hard to get like a
you know like a clear understanding of
of the challenges that you actually face
and that led us into like uh you know
the algal coin
winters and i built my own yield
aggregator like a fork of the urine b1
for a number of different goggle coins
in the space and started like farming
these these new novel mechanisms for
stable coins and that was like the big
aha moment for me was that flipping bits
in this virtual computer
generates significant profit if you know
what you're doing and so i started
looking into like med trading and front
running and you know i've gone the real
the full gamut in terms of what's
happening
and uh
yeah then shortly after that was uh
we started getting into the middle of
the pandemic and that was like the
builder hat went on pretty squarely and
just kind of really like focused my
efforts on like layer twos what's coming
up with the scaling wars
taos started happening
and started you know really kind of
delving into what these new mechanisms
could be as a big fan of like aragon's
technology stack in the early days
started building some aragon apps trying
to figure out you know what may be
what may be next and how could we use
these technologies to really like drive
value you know didn't really have
anything in mind that i wanted to build
it's really weird i'm i'm generally a
generalist when it comes to things but
then sometimes i find something that
like you know makes you want to become
the specialist or the expert in that
thing and dow tooling was one of those
things that i really focused on
aggressively for i would say the
majority of 2020 you know i participated
in the art out ecosystem
uh sorry our die and uh you know they're
like a you know streaming money platform
and they wanted to build a dial around
it and how that would actually like
bring forth you know larger
participation that was always something
that really like really stuck with me
because the ico boom taught me that
like generally if you want to launch a
token and you want to raise capital
around that token you know you're in for
a seven year like seven year ride and if
you don't have a value or a business
plan that'll drive value long enough
like the likelihood of you succeeding is
very low but then when dao was emerged
it was kind of this like the eureka
moment of the ico boom
where you are able to put the
decision-making powers into stakeholders
that either earned their way in or by
their way in and
that really like
transformed the narrative around what a
business could or couldn't be
and the concept of a company just kind
of like dissolves into the background
all of a sudden the network emerges and
so i think that was you know that was
one of the more transformational years
in crypto i would say is the emergence
of taos you know we all remember the
most infamous dow from 2016. you know
bitcoin maxes love to throw it in our
face at every chance they get but uh
we've come a long way since the 26th the
era of 2016 dials to where we are now
and you know there are the dow tooling
is ridiculous at this point in time
yeah i would say i've just been a
lifelong hacker hacker entrepreneur i
fell in love with crypto in an early
early phase of my life and i've just
been kind of like dedicating my life to
you know always being at the forefront
and being you know the best i can be at
it that's cool that you have um that
experience with get coin obviously kevin
is based in boulder and i've been to
meetups with uh that austin griffith has
hosted where we spun up a burner wallet
and i was able to buy beer using dye
and kevin's also been on the previous
iteration of this podcast so it's it's
cool to kind of see that you have that
for me it's a local relationship but
that you've you put in time with git
coin
uh the work that they've done with the
quadratic formulas and the way that
you know people who aren't necessarily
whales or have smaller amounts of money
can make more of an impact on projects
they want to support that was kind of
one of the many aha moments i've had
throughout my journey in cryptocurrency
which i started in 2017 during the ico
buzz
boom
so before we kind of go into daoz which
you started alluding to i did just want
to talk about your experience in
ethereum
and maybe just help me understand a
little bit better when i first started
using cryptocurrencies cryptokitties
clogged ethereum and that's what led me
to learning about other l1s and using
other networks and then i started to
better understand speed even if it's not
decentralized the network the speed was
better and the fees were cheaper so
could you just share with me a little
bit more about your insight into
why ethereum is still such a competitive
blockchain even though it has what some
might consider barriers to entry mainly
cost and maybe
what keeps people around in that
ecosystem and or why are more developers
still joining ethereum each month it's
still on aggregate accumulating more and
more developers than any other chain
despite these perceived flaws
yeah cryptokitties was wild it was like
the first killer app
that attracted a user base that was
voracious and now it didn't have
long staying power you know
cryptokitties today their overall
transaction volume is like super low but
it isn't because cryptokitties was like
you know a fad i think the cost that
ultimately transacting on a clogged
network it really scared away people
because
especially if you're a retail
participant and you know i was for a
long time i consider myself still a
retail participant in a lot of aspects
but as a developer so let's flip it
around let's go from the developer
aspect first
from a developer
learning solidity is incredibly easy so
if you have a good fundamental
understanding of virtually any language
you can pick up solidity in a few weeks
now to master solidity obviously there's
nuances you have to learn about the ebm
and different aspects of like the
patterns that are good that are bad
there's a lot of like gotchas like you
know infamous the dow hack the
re-entrancy problem and that's i think
why it has such high staying power
is that a developer onboarding to the
ecosystem has this amazing connected
composable virtual machine that has a
plethora of pre-built free
deployed
experiences running with billions of
dollars associated to them today
so the cold start problem it's more like
a warm start problem for a new dev
coming in there's tons of examples the
the the overall footprint of deployed
uh real life production infrastructure
is incredibly high that is not possible
to copy and paste and put anywheres else
you can fork a protocol but it's really
hard to fork a community
and so the more connected this community
gets more likelihood that people are
going to sorry increases the likelihood
that new entrants are going to want to
join that community and so
retail
is chases whales
and so early devs and ethereum by and
large have become whales
and
ethereum itself
doesn't really give you a good reason to
leave because there is some upper bound
on cost and i think i've tweeted it a
few times but you know one of the
biggest misnomers around
costs and it's funny if you look at the
cost ethereum is actually still pretty
cheap but if you do like complex defy
operations it's expensive right if you
look at like a trade on a stock market
depending on where you're trading you
know it's anywhere between zero dollars
to ten dollars per trade doesn't matter
if you're trading a hundred shares or
trading one share you know there is some
subliminal cost those costs though for
financial transactions are all tax
write-offs so
really at the end of the day
you're just spending money that you're
getting back on the other side of things
from your from the government on your
income you can claim all those expenses
so that was one of the aha moments for
me was that when costs started to become
crazy you know like i spent way more
money than i wanted to this year and
last year on on on gas fees but every
dollar i spend on gas fees is a dollar
i'm not paying in taxes
and so that i think is what is is
keeping a lot of participants
available and in the space
is that the traditional system
understands financial operations and
from the tax aspect of things really
well but retail doesn't care about that
aspect of things they don't have enough
money invested in the ecosystem to truly
care and so
that is when like i think when these
fees become problematic for retail and
they want to look elsewhere for l1
chains it's often because they're trying
to get rich quick and you know this is
obviously stereotyping in a lot of
aspects but like the old meme of like oh
i invested 250 in aetherium where's my
lambo it's only it's been five minutes
already like when you talk to a lot of
people they think that we're still in
this nascent 2013 2016 window
where you know you can buy 20 30 50 of
bitcoin wait for a decade and then
you're going to be rich
and it's not that there aren't
opportunities out there because i never
want to discourage anybody from trying
to find gems but i just truly think that
that is like a a broken mentality to
have to approaching this space you know
blockchains are now just another tool in
the toolbox so
to just roll back a little bit so my
understanding of how things
in the cryptokitties moment when fees
started to go crazy high
we looked at the space and said okay how
good is the technology we're actually
using right like
the reality is it sucks
and it still sucks today but it's the
best sucking thing we have
and that is a really powerful thing
because
in ethereum the community by and large
is willing to accept we have problems
but more importantly we're willing to
build solutions to try to solve these
problems like thinking that ethereum is
done or will be done anytime soon
i would say is a false notion will
ethereum get ossified at some point time
the l1 will get so concrete that there's
you know we've we've hit some innovation
threshold where changing things is
actually bringing more complexity and
diminishing returns to the upgrades
probably that is just a reality of where
we'll get
but if you compare the ecosystem from
ethereum to bitcoin the bitcoin
ecosystem believes that bitcoin by and
large is perfect and that changes to
bitcoin don't need to exist satoshi gave
us the holy grail
and it is perfect ethereum
by and large its community its
governance model is way more
technocratic and we say that we want to
build the best possible technology
virtually at any cost we want to be able
to have a global sediment layer we want
to be able to have this global virtual
machine the world computer and
some of the ways that we've marketed
ethereum and spoken about ethereum to
the general public i'd say we have done
this a disservice by and large the world
computer narrative most people don't buy
into it because the likelihood that
we're actually able to do generalized
large-scale computations on ethereum not
very high but what we can do is validate
proofs that completely obliterate our
need to do large-scale computations on
chain because we can just prove that the
computation is correct it was done
elsewhere and that is a fundamentally
very powerful component to system design
is that we have a way to alleviate
pressures that exist on l1 transactions
by
enabling them to be verified on chain
and computed elsewhere and so
like this hit me early in to the scaling
debates and the scaling wars and i said
to myself like of the conversations i've
had with members in the community
people are so aware of the actual
problems that they're like devoting
literally all of their time and their
energy to trying to solve them and if
that is where the mind shares is willing
to be the self-aware wolf in this case
and say yeah this technology is not the
best but i truly believe that we can
make it the best and you get enough
people that want to buy into this
concept and not even about buying into a
like a finished product they're buying
into the concept of a lifelong journey
of improvement that is where magic
happens you know i've been on teams of
developers where people say like and you
have one person who's incredibly
negative along the way and tries to pull
the conversation down says oh it can't
be done shouldn't be done whatever that
is like the perfect example of like a
bitcoiner they say oh no you know like
the complexity is too high but if you
get enough people that are willing to
work together and dig through the
complexity and try to you know instill
it down to its most simplest forms and
build something tangible
even if it fails but they're they're
willing to take that risk like that is
where all the upside histories come from
people willing to take those monumental
risks
and so
i think
that's what keeps ethereum so relevant
and competitive
is that we're willing to be wrong
and we're willing to continuously work
towards what we believe is right and a
lot of other chains just aren't offering
that same level of community and not to
mention the ethereum community by and
large is incredibly diverse you know
we're very much open to
all aspects all spectrums all questions
all challenges we're willing to be wrong
you know and i don't know if i've ever
found that in any other ecosystem you
know and like i always say like i'm not
a maxi but you're tech sex
and so
like i look every day for what's going
to kill ethereum and what's going to be
the next best platform to build on and
the day that we find something that
truly is
able to to hit metrics that outperform
ethereum and more importantly outperform
the ethereum community like i'll divest
i'll go and i'll build but like i
haven't found it and i've been looking
for it since i discovered ethereum it's
like okay wow ethereum is amazing this
new technology we're having scaling
problems you know uh we're not gonna you
know hit started uh chains quite the
same way that we thought we were we're
looking at a roll-up-centric future most
importantly is like we're actively
developing we're not hanging our head on
any laurels you know we're not claiming
that we know best because nobody knows
the market knows the market figures it
out rather and so ethereum as its
community is willing to be wrong and
willing to fight for what they believe
is right and so i think that that is a
really powerful combination and one that
you just can't fork and you can't
replicate and that is why we attract
more devs every quarter they want to
come build on ethereum and more capital
comes in to end this platform than
anything else bitcoin miami just
happened again their conference
and there was a panel people asked about
how many people hold bitcoin it's like
you know a very few number of hands go
up and that was in the camera shot and
then they just set a curiosity after
people hold ethereum it's like 90 of
hands shut up so it just goes to show
that it's like we may not have the
mainstream narrative when it comes to
adoption but we do have the retail and
we do have the mind share and i think
that is what really is going to keep us
going for quite a long time yeah it
sounds like that layer zero as the
bankless podcast calls it or that social
cohesion and composability is just kind
of
untouchable right now because it's hard
to build those network effects from
scratch
so
we're here for to talk about daos and
they were obviously born on ethereum as
we know them today uh not the concept of
governance but dao's
uh the code so you know this is a really
complex subject so maybe we can just
start off really quickly within your
definition what is a dao
sure a dao stands for a decentralized
autonomous organization but more
importantly a dao is an ecosystem of
participants that are able to have a
voice through direct democracy and so
this concept of like you know not
necessarily one voice one vote but
capital is speech and through that
you're able to have direct action
and so literally putting money where
your mouth is
cool so you've you've obviously been
around the crypto and blockchain space
for a while so maybe asking about the
first dow that you heard about is
probably going to be the dao from the
dow hack uh so maybe what was the first
example of uh the first dow you started
working on
and was that before the 2020 kind of dow
boom
yeah it was right around that time
actually so my first active
participation in a dow itself
i don't know it may have been our die
but that was like they didn't really
necessarily transition to a full dow
with like voting and governance i would
say it may have even been please redoubt
was my first true active in 2021 active
participation in a dow so for me like
what i found about dao's is you have to
believe in what you're participating in
to actually be like an engaged and
engaged participant it's one thing to
hold dow tokens it's another thing to
like actually go vote on a proposal to
dig in to care
but uh you know i was uh
as an early member of the get coin dao
you know full disclosure since divested
but i participated in
olympus dow you know voted on a number
of proposals along the way there
pleaser dow still an active
participating member
that may be it for my large-scale
participation and things i participated
on some anons and some you know random
doubts that never really got off the
ground too too much but but largely from
my public personas and whatnot you know
pleaser that was where i you know spend
a lot of my time you know i had like i
think i have 100 or maybe that's not
true i didn't have my hardware wallet
with me during one voting session before
my delegates kicked into my active
wallet so they got just one vote out of
all the pleaser down votes you know
bitcoin i was an active participant in
the governance structures uh when they
launched into a dow
i believe a lot in bitcoin dao actually
i think it's going to be one of the more
prolific daos along the way
i would love to have seen more
like financial engagement from the yield
farming defy aspect of things with with
all dows to get going down included you
know i tried to
experience some initiatives along the
way but you know ultimately like that's
the beauty of a dao is that one
participant wanting something doesn't
enable it and so if there's not a buy-in
of the crowd uh wisdom of the crowd
gently trumps out and then uh
yeah i divested more for
financial reasons you know hard to turn
down capital when the market's hot but i
had a new baby at the same time and so
it's one of those things where i'm like
i'm not able to make community calls and
able to participate in these things you
know being a steward is is very publicly
facing publicly exposed thing being a
protocol politician is is great in some
aspects it's not so great in others
you know i had an incident where i put
up a proposal to liquidate akita tokens
that were sent to the get coin dial uh
vitalik was given a number of dog tokens
over the years uh and he donated a bunch
of them to the bitcoin uh treasury and
so you know i just did some quick napkin
math and i was like man like we should
just be liquidating like we should just
market topologies because there's
millions of dollars of capital that can
be captured for open source we put it
towards good use public goods all that
stuff
and you know there's a lot of blowback
because there's a huge community around
nikita that i'm not aware of and so but
i'm like the became a you know
ultimately a figurehead for this
proposal and for this decision
and you know the number amount of hate
messages you know why are you trying to
destroy this ecosystem blah blah blah
you know came flooding in and i was like
wow like you know this is a really
volatile position to be in like just
purely by participating and having an
opinion i became the bad guy and so that
was not something that i was really
necessarily interested in being on the
ride for but i helped the proposal get
across the line to where it needed to be
ultimately we came i think to it was a
good decision for both git coin and the
akita community there was a number of
mechanisms we put into place that
allowed them to participate you know we
even had some blowback around a number
of these participation sorry a number of
these mechanisms because my proposal was
intentionally vague and so i was saying
like this is what i believe we should do
i put up a vote we had a number of
people actually you know vote in favor
of this concept but
my proposal didn't have an execution so
like how we would actually do this so
there was a number of things i didn't
want to have happen like i didn't
believe we should be burning tokens i
didn't believe we should be destroying
value we should be capturing that value
even if by capturing that value we're
destroying value in another community i
was less worried about or less focused
on the you know the needs and wants of
the dog token holders and more focused
around where my own incentives aligned
which is in get going down
and
we had some internal strife around that
given that one of the overall mechanisms
we ended up creating was like a buy back
and burn system which i felt was
actually in spirit of my initial
proposal because we weren't burning
tokens directly there was a way that
heated community could buy some of these
tokens back from us and we would burn a
composite amount as well as providing
enough liquidity for a bootstrapping
pool to actually facilitate like
divesting over time so i what i thought
was you know in the spirit of my
proposal that had passed it was a
win-win
ended up having a lot of you know
conflict and gripe because just because
i believe
that
the outcome or the execution is in the
spirit of my proposal
doesn't necessarily mean that that
should have been the path forward
ultimately it was but it was weird like
government's so new we didn't even have
like i mean i think my proposal was made
on like day three or day four something
like that of the dow being live and so
there was no process in place by how we
should even you know carry out proposals
that are passed and so you know that was
when i realized that it's like holy
like the person who has the proposal
that gets passed has to help facilitate
and execute this proposal like i was on
hour-long calls regarding you know how
we do this and like the time sink is
incredibly high and you're not being
paid for any of this right and so
your only incentive is the assets you
hold and you wanted to do right by them
which is good in some in some respects
but for the amount of time and energy
that had to be spent in like it's not
worth it in a lot of cases you have to
be literally of the mindset to be
attacked publicly all day every day and
be okay with it and it wasn't it wasn't
bad at first but then it wears on you
when you like come in the morning you've
got 99 new messages you know 20 dms and
everyone's just like you've been tagged
in threads but how you're a huge
and all these things and it's like wow
like you know this space is incredibly
toxic like i know i don't want this like
the best opportunity i can on divesting
my position and i'll no longer have a
voice in this community and so you know
i think with that moment a lot actually
whether or not that was the right choice
to make you know given that the
community is so vibrant and that perhaps
i should have like kept some vote around
whatever but ultimately i think it was
the best choice for me and my needs at
the time and you know led me to a better
place you know find a financially but
you know b i would say spiritually on
the developer side of things it freed up
my mental capacity to
to really focus on things that i cared
about as opposed to you know feeling
financially tied to this boat and to
have to participate because if you
aren't you know hands on the steering
wheel the value could just like
disappear overnight because someone
drove you off a cliff
so that was really like an interesting
crash course and learning experience
through daos is that uh
just because you are financially
motivated doesn't mean that you should
stay
motivated for those causes sometimes
it's best to cut and run yeah that
brings up an interesting question you
know i'm thinking of the constitution
dow and
you know when you formulate these
communities that are based around an
idea or an ideal
oftentimes you're going to need to have
individuals carry them across the goal
line so like you were just saying you
know once once your proposal goes
through then oh no i have to sit here
and facilitate this but like with the
constitution dow you know there needed
to be someone who was going to these
auction houses there needed to be
lawyers that were in person physically
representing this dao
so is that something that you find is
sort of a key element for
successful daos particularly ones that
interact with the real world or have
real world repercussions do you need to
have some sort of like uh established
representative or leader at the top is
this something that every dow should
have
where do you kind of stand on that
perspective
yeah it's a tricky one because real
world assets require real world people
to facilitate somebody has to be signing
a contract somewhere
i don't believe you need to have an
individual though so i think one of the
best patterns that's kind of emerging
is a company that provides services for
a dow so basically
you would have a service provider
who
in that great example will use the
constitution now they had a
representative who was like a proxy who
was voting on their behalf on the floor
and i believe her name was brooke i
think that's who was facilitating the
vote for uh sorry the the bids for
constitution down and
she provided a service
to this dow and i don't know her fee or
what if there was a fee or what it was
maybe she worked unemployed by sotheby's
so the auction house at the time
but this concept of a service provider
is an interesting legal argument and
legal framework that you can apply
these things because as a company
you can
work
in service
to virtually anything you can work in
service to a corporation to a person to
a trust to a will to an estate and so
why is a multi-sig or a doubt any
different right if you're providing
under contractual guarantee some service
where some entity through some capacity
be it an individual or a lawyer or
someone acting as a representative for
again another service provider so if if
the the vote didn't happen because the
person you know on the floor didn't do
their job then another another service
provider a lawyer could be hired to
bring suit against that other service
provider on behalf of this entity and so
you may not need to have a legal entity
for everything you know for hosting
agreements you can pay somebody
to enter into an agreement with amazon
to provide infrastructure support and to
run your code now
is that necessarily the best i don't
know but it provides an interesting
argument around how you may not need to
have a legal entity that facilitates
that initial arrangement with amazon you
can hire a service provider that's an
amazon reseller and they want to accept
payments and they're willing to do an
interactions with the dow
then
that service provider can can sign off
on that can pay the bills on your behalf
can provide you infrastructure give you
api key access whatever your developers
may need to deploy and ship code without
the dao itself ever actually owning
anything however there are
other aspects of
daos where a dao may actually want to
own
something and it not be the service
provider so you may have to have a
holdings company you may need to have
some legal entity or representative
again it's almost in a service provider
capacity but you could you could
facilitate it through some kind of trust
where the trust is like literally
required through its constitution to
execute the wishes that come from this
multisig from the votes that are passed
by these entities literally written into
the trust's entire purpose for existing
we see that a lot with like uh tesla's
is one of the ones that comes to mind
they raised a capital they set up a
trust in a sorry foundation in
switzerland the foundation had very
clear goals and swiss foundations are
designed in a way that you know they can
be these hands-off entities that are
that have to have to execute on their
their mandate and so there are a lot of
legal structures that can be put up and
facilitated around dabs without there
having to be a company that is quote
unquote the dao and so i wouldn't
necessarily say that you have to have a
figurehead it certainly makes things
easier if you do
if you look at maker dao and its uh most
recent initiatives with real world
assets
it engaged through i think it's called
6s capital is the structure of
legal organizations or legal frameworks
uh certain legal companies that are set
up but they facilitated like a 7.8
million dollar loan with tesla to build
a service center and so this is maker
dao the platform white listed basically
commercial paper
through this company so this company has
presumably a multi-sig or some address
that is able to mint die
to be able to give that dye that capital
to its partners to its contractually
obligated entities which in this case is
tesla there's a few other ones they also
had one where they you know 20 million
die or something like that to build uh
windmills or green energy off so think
of solar actually outside of new york
and so
you know there are structures in place
that allow for entities to provide
service and be permissioned or have you
know executive privileges inside
ecosystems without completely
dismantling the decentralized nature
where you know these companies for
instance they could just go and mint up
to the maximum amount of capital and go
liquidate it spend it but they would
have legal recourse given the fact that
you know there's a trust is established
that is required to execute certain
actions and then the trust maybe is the
board or controls the you know who can
sit on the board and so there are legal
frameworks that uh
that can help but at the end of the day
it's you know it's really comes down to
what is your dow doing
and how much do you need to be backed by
lawyers because that's ultimately what
it comes down to is that you know if you
need to do something and you're the only
recourse you have is law so the legal
system and the lawyers that sit on top
of it it does come into question some of
your decentralization uh components
now if it's
in a smaller capacity like service
providing and there's a way that you can
you know mitigate the fallout like a
good example it's like if
you were a uniswap and you can the
unisop dao and you contract pinoswap
labs to pay for the the domain name and
then the unit swap team ships malicious
code what legal recourse does uniswapnow
have against uniswaplabs for shipping
malicious code that stole everyone's
money and you know i don't know that
answer ultimately but
presumably there would be uh some
capacity at some point in time where
uniswaplabs had agreed to be a service
provider to the dow and provide you know
some standard of care some software
license agreement like you see in a lot
of traditional businesses
and so
yeah those arguments we made on both
sides of this uh i think ultimately
though as long as the the legal system
isn't your only means of executing down
your initiatives and your goals then you
know you're you're still fine in terms
of being under the dow monk gear yeah we
alluded to this earlier there's
dows for all sorts of different purposes
so that's kind of why i was really
excited to have you join the smart
economy podcast because you are a member
of pleaser dow
and pleaser dow kind of came onto my
radar after
purchasing was it some sort of snowden
nft
yeah the edward snowden nft that was
produced yeah and then obviously like i
don't know about obviously but i'm a
huge hip-hop fan so obviously the
wu-tang album too made a huge splash so
could you just tell me what is pleaser
dao and how did this group of
individuals come together with this
mission to purchase art that they feel
needs to be preserved yeah
so pleaser now is uh you know to use our
own tagline he's a cartel of peeps who
aim to please you know we are
a radical group of i would say crypto
native non-native new to the space you
know luminaries who
just believe in doing willy wonka s
crazy cool stuff
uh it started in
uh march of 2021 people pleaser who for
those who don't know is a very talented
artist who kind of cut her teeth into
the nft space early on she did a lot of
uh really cool nfts for emerging uh
communities like the a lot of the urine
nfts pickle finance a lot of that kind
of stuff kind of like bringing these
ecosystems together and so it was
announced that she was
producing uh an nft video
for the uniswap v3 launch and for those
of us who went through d5 summer uniswap
was a integral part of the explosion of
d5 you know permissionless markets is
huge component uh you know everything we
use today i mean people are listening to
this probably use unit swap two three
times a day
but back then it was like this radical
transformation and so
v2 had been out for a full year
you know we heard rumors about v3 coming
down the pipe and having all these
new components to it you know no one
really knew 100 what was coming
and so
when it was announced that there was
this nft drop happening for it
at first it was like wow like that's an
amazing like amazing way to launch this
but then when you find out that the
artist is people pleaser and kind of
digging into more of her history and
what she's done you find out that she's
this amazing visual effects artist you
know she's done work for
a number of large companies
and
i produced something that was like
awe-inspiring but then the reality hit
like oh this is just going to get bought
by some whales and it's never going to
seem like big
and so
you know it was like
goes to the back your mind for a little
bit you're like okay well i mean it's
gonna go for a few hundred thousand
dollars like i don't know who wants to
just drop that or who can just drop that
on an nft and be like yeah there's no
market for this it's just gonna sit
forever on the shelf somewheres and then
leighton kuzak the founder of pool
together put out a tweet asking if
anyone wanted to like you know pool
money and buy this
and so
i know jameis johnson a prolific member
of the space i met him when i was in dev
con in osaka
and he reached out i was like yo are you
like interested in like getting in on
this i know you've been around the bend
and you made me appreciate this and i
was like man this is absolutely like you
know this is a chance to actually like
own something of what i would consider
like historical significance in our
space
and
it was like
this radical ragtag approach to like
getting capital in like you know we had
eoa wallets we were just like
wiring eth2 and you like don't know
these people you're just like yolo and
um you know me and my business partner
at the time decided this was like a
worthy endeavor
and
it exploded like it became something
huge i think bigger than any of us ever
expected off the get-go like those first
few moments when we were in there like
the bidding war like every time there's
an auction it's always stressful and so
like you know we're like spitting up
notes and safes like anyone know how to
do this like grabbing twitter handles
reddit handles like you know we need a
web address we need to like
somehow
like look legitimate more so than we uh
than we were at the moment because it's
like there's like 10 or 11 of us at the
moment at the early days
and then um yeah we were going through
and like bidding on these things and
we're trying to figure out how to do it
in a way that we can like you know use a
multi-sig but like foundation didn't
support like wallet time so i couldn't
really connect these things so like i
think we
one of their early members was like alex
from like manson or something and he was
like well i have like a doxxed wallet
that i use and it's like you know like
if you want i can bid on this so like we
just like sent all our money to this doa
and we went through a bidding war and
you know i think we spent like 500k or
something and every time that we were
like we get outbid it was like who do we
know that's got like i'll just yeah i'll
just yolo this random crypto into this
you know thing
and so every time that we would like
there'd be a bidding war
and what was really impassioned about
this is that when we would outbid
somebody
we would start a dm with them and be
like yo you want to join and so all of a
sudden it's like you take out the next
big competitor and then you add their
capital to the pool and then that's your
next like salvo to fire to take out the
next person that's trying to like trying
to
shoot you out and so it became this like
it's like a war and an essence because
it's like you defeat an opponent and
you're like yo join us
like you know we can go further together
and you know that was like the the
really early days of pleasers onboarding
and you know we had no mission beyond
acquiring the v3 nft like that was you
know that was the whole purpose of
creating this thing because pleaser or
people pleaser was you know the artist
involved we figured we would name the
dao after her and call ourselves please
or dao because you know we really just
rallied to purchase her artwork and then
it was funny when you know we're
we're like okay we bought this thing and
it's like it's official it's confirmed
like it's us i remember we invited uh
people please they're into the telegram
chat the people should probably hate
them telling the story but uh admittedly
was probably pretty overwhelming you
have this group of people who just spent
half a million dollars on your artwork
and they're like like want to chat with
you and congratulate you and so it's
like oh yeah you know this is dope this
is awesome and she's like well it's
really nice thanks everybody bye like
leaves the telegram completely it's gone
and we're like i was like the opposite
experience that we expected we would
have here like you know we thought this
would be like the burgeoning of
something much more which did end up
that way but it was kind of funny at
first like you know any of these things
like 12 or 14 versus this point random
individuals who just bought your artwork
and they're you know invite you to this
random telegram and it's full of people
that you know and you know seen online
and and then uh yeah it became something
pretty special after that you know
governance came into play which is cool
so we tried to figure out like what was
what we didn't completely expand our
entire treasury on the first purchase so
we had like as we acquired new people
they they based whatever they had bid
previously for the nft they acquired it
and deposited into our treasury and then
next thing you know it was like well
like i guess we're probably gonna
start it now then we need to token we
need to like divvy up how this is
working the token didn't come right away
it came like after i think a couple
rounds of
acquisitions and stuff it was one of
those things we just kind of facilitated
went from like a spreadsheet eventually
became
uh
an initial token allocation that
everyone had uh got distributed we
started snapshot voting we elected uh
our chief pleasing officer jameis at uh
one point time i think it's like week
two or something in the actual phase i
don't even know the chronological
timeline of artwork but i think the next
one was snowden and we found out that
snowden was doing nft and the cool thing
was is that the press
picked this up like because they were
like what just happened like a group of
random people came together and you know
there was no party bit at the time which
those of you there may know that party
bit is a technology that allows anyone
to contribute and purchase things we
talk a lot about constitution data they
raise their capital on party bid to buy
the constitution and so it was cool to
see like you know see the emergence of
these tools coming based on the fact
that you know we had manually gotten
together and you know facilitated these
purchases and then when snowden came out
i remember this day like you know every
day that we had an auction to be like
tell all my friends and family is like i
don't know when i'll be available but if
you need me like you've got to give me
at least hours today i don't know when
i'm going to be going to sleep you know
we're bidding on this piece my family's
like what do you mean you're bidding on
this piece i'm like oh yeah we're like
i'm an art collector now apparently
and so
jesse powell was like the arch nemesis
of our bids along the way on a number of
pieces
and uh yeah we were like
bidding up the snowden nft we have like
12 people that are checking the chain to
see when jesse's like reloading and
you're like ah 200 more ether just got
slammed in from jesse and it's like what
are we gonna do
so i won't name names specifically but
one of our now dao members
like loaned of the dao a thousand ether
just like uh yeah i'll just i'll i'll uh
i'm in for a thousand either you know
it's a loan though so you gotta pay me
back but like i'm in i want i want into
this thing i want snowden nft to be a
part of it like let's get it and so like
i can say this it's all on chain you can
see the transactions and um i was like
man we just had like that was a powerful
moment like you just literally had
someone be willing to wire you a
thousand ether to go buy an nft
and it's like social contract is what
we're all bound under you know we have
no
there is no like agreement we've signed
there's no nothing it's just like yo
we're gonna
buy the nft right
and we're gonna like figure it out and
so we're like yeah well we're gonna do
something and we're gonna figure out how
to raise capital and we'll we'll pay
back and so they set some like you know
nominal interest rate and it was like
cool i'll lend you a thousand either and
you guys can figure out repayment terms
and so
i think that that was in like may
of 2021 was i think may 25th summers are
shortly after my birthday summer is
around that timeline we're like okay
cool well we like bought the snowden
piece now we have like this crazy debt
we gotta figure out like well i'm sure
we'll get there that kind of thing and
then
we got word that the doge nft
was being auctioned and it was like well
we wanted to do a repayment strategy and
we wanted to like figure out how that
was all going to work but it's like the
doge nft is like a must get so it's like
you know we have a vote right it's like
do we like repay the loan or do we like
go buy the the dogenft and it was like i
wouldn't say controversial but it was
like uh you know some of us are like man
well like you know
we have this massive quote-unquote debt
now we got to figure out how are we
gonna like repay that
specifically and
then it was like it didn't matter though
because the dogenft was like so
must-have is like yeah then we'll just
figure out the debt like worst case
scenario it's a couple extra hundred
ether we gotta figure out that line you
know whatever we tried whatever we
choose to do and i think we had like
maybe like 10 or 11 days notice on the
doge nft and i think at this time maybe
the original tor nft was out there as
well
jesse powell also our arch nemesis along
the way there but when the doge nfd
launched we were like man this is like
literally internet culture and an image
right and this thing has been around the
bend since 2013
you know there's not a single millennial
gen z online that doesn't know what the
doge is
and i remember when like
years ago my roommate was talking about
dogecoin he's like oh but it's but it's
the doge do you own a picture of the
doge and i remember being like well no
it's like just like a random mean
cryptocurrency about the dog you have no
ownership he's like what's the closest
thing you can get and so
when the doge nft came out i was like
you can actually own
the image of the doge
and it became the most like left or
right curve experience ever right it's
like if you were sitting on either side
retail or jedi you're like yeah we have
to buy it if you were following anywhere
in the middle you're like well what's
what's the business case what are we
gonna do here and so then ultimately we
bought it you know we purchased just
just the original we weren't interested
in any of like the you know the random
tangential offshoots
and we started on a plan to like
fractionalize because uh one of our
members andy is the co-founder of
fractional live fraction learn and uh we
were thinking like wow you know we could
like fractionalize it and distribute
ownership of the community like we'll
just like sell a portion of it so
ultimately we ended up doing that it was
months after we acquired it though like
months and months and months down the
line and again we have this each debt
that's just like
paying interest or trailing interest
right now and i don't think i think we
ended up launching it in like september
i think it was when we actually launched
the fractional doge but we'd acquired
some other art along the way as well
and um
the
initial like fervor for
buying fractionalized portions of the
dog was it was ridiculous like the day
that that auction went up on miso
it shattered expectations beyond
shattered like you know the amount of
transactions flowing to the chain i had
a lot of my friends and family were like
wait what is going on like oh my god
dude i can't i don't even know what's
going on we just sold 20 of a dog image
for 42 million dollars and so it was
like one of those aha moments like you
know retailers arrive in the nfc
landscape they're here and they want
exposure they're literally everything
and so you know and all this just born
out of like you know starting from a
tweet just like random ragtag group of
people
i don't know specifically the details of
what of our raises but like we've raised
capital at this point in time from a
number of you know prolific pcs all
across the space
and so it's been a really
transformational journey like the dow
itself is still functioning it's you
know it's still considered to be like um
you know one of the quote unquote blue
chip dials the pinnacle of how dao
should function you know we have a lot
of uh a lot of pieces under the works
the wu-tang album we haven't talked a
lot about that but you know full context
i can't go too deep on it but we got
wind that potentially
this may be going up for sale
and i think we heard about it like
mid-summer and the
for those that don't know the story of
the bhutan album we'll give you a quick
little refresher the wu tang back in
2013 produced arguably the world's first
nft
uh it's a one-of-one album you know at
the time music was going online
uh you know the middleman is squeezing
artists out for every last penny you
know streams are not really paying you a
ton of money and so like music is should
be this like cherished you know like
ordained experience and it was just
being like mass-produced and shoved down
everyone's throat really so the wujang
and secret created this one-on-one album
once upon a time in xiaolin
and you know it comes in this
beautifully ornate case you know it's a
a two-disc album
only one produced ever in the whole
world and originally they decided to
auction it and i don't know specifically
when it was purchased i think because it
what didn't really come out that they
had done it it was done for years before
they actually auctioned it but anyways
it ended up going for like sold for two
and something million dollars to martin
australi brahma bro uh internet villain
you know he was very pompous about the
ownership of it he
you know
rumored to have used like you know cds
as coasters and like that kind of stuff
now i don't know if there's any truth to
that music sounded great you know but
like it comes with this really intricate
legal contract and so you know a great
example is like at any point in time
like the living members of the wu tang
are able to attempt to steal the album
back and if they're successful then
ownership reverts to them you know they
also added bill murray into that clause
and so like bill murray could uh could
attempt to heist at any time that the
album was being played or being
displayed in public and if he steals it
well guess what it could spell murray's
and so there's like i don't know
specifics but i think it might seem like
an 80 page legal document the details
like the covenants around this piece of
historical artwork and so you know one
of them is that you can't like you can't
play it it can't be you know it can't be
um it can be recorded can't be
distributed online
you know massive penalties and fines
around a lot of this and so there's this
whole legal framework around this
intricate
one-on-one
music album that had to be navigated
very very very carefully and so you know
our guys and our team that was working
on it it was months and months and
months around facilitating you know
conversations you know what's going on
understanding like how to purchase it
you know where it currently exists so
the department of justice seized the
album from martin shkreli i don't know
if it was like 2016 or 2018 when he was
indicted they you know they decided that
the proceeds to purchase the album were
from ill-gotten gains and some corrupt
dealings and so they took that and so as
a part of
purchasing the album
we
uh basically in essence paid off martin
shkreli's debt to the department of
justice
and so
you know i think our i don't know if the
purchase price is public probably but
whatever it's full we bought it for like
four million dollars at the time and now
it sits you know in a vault under lock
and key basically
we have strict legal agreements around
its custody we had a listening party in
nft nyc for dao members and a few select
individuals we had to hire like you know
ultra hard security around it you know
no phones allowed on the premises
everyone had to like hand things in full
pat down he was in a completely
nondescript location in the middle of
brooklyn during nft nyc there's like no
social media presence allowed to talk
about it very little pictures allowed to
be taken while we're there
very surreal experience right you're
like a part owner of this thing and it's
like
you literally have to like ask a lawyer
how you can talk about it you know prior
to coming on this podcast i got like
tldr on you know what i can can't say
even to today right there's still a lot
that's ongoing with it but we have a
full team now working on it we're hoping
to bring some kind of amazing experience
to the retail masses uh as time allows
time and energy and effort allows and i
think that we should hopefully have you
know by later this year have a whole
better understanding of what that's
going to mean for the wu-tang fans out
there but i will tell you i've heard it
it's it's fantastic it was very surreal
experience and i hope that everyone
listening that wants to hear it gets an
opportunity to do so awesome thanks for
just kind of walking through the history
of pleaser down and also kind of sharing
a little bit about the subjective nature
of what it's like to participate in an
auction and it sounds like
there's this emotion that ties all the
pleaser down members together because
you get to go through this experience
that not very many people get to go
through
so in wrapping up the pod i've had you
for a long time cognizant of the time
you've given me one of the questions i
really like to ask our guests is what
does the smart economy
mean to you what is the smart economy
yeah so the smart economy i think you
know it distills down to
to an economy that works for you not
against you so traditionally you look at
you know how we fit into the overall
macro landscape of finances and the
economy at whole like you know
traditionally we are you know we're
slaves to the man
and so smart economy is one that allows
you to be participating at scale for you
know little to no um to work energy
right the ability to
invest in a yield aggregator that
automatically farms and go that
participates harvest finance you know
urine finance whatever you know take
your pick but the ability to participate
in these ecosystems where you can
you can participate at scale
without having to be the person who does
that you know so your capital can work
for you much easier than you can you
know and the beauty of it of a smart
economy is transparency the ability to
verify not trust and so
i think that's that kind of distills it
down is you know ability to verify i
have to trust
awesome thank you so much for coming to
join we had a hard time getting our
schedules lined up so um you know i
understand you're really busy so
it was really cool to be able to pull
your ear and to hear your experience as
a founding down member i think the
series is really going to be well
rounded out with um
shapeshift talking about decoratizing
and then speaking from the legal aspect
and then speaking with folks who coded
infrastructure to be able to build
dowels on other networks and then to
really like tie it off with your
experience talking about please your dao
i'm really happy to have had your voice
to be able to
bring this series uh to a close so
andrew thank you so much for joining it
was an honor and a pleasure to chat with
you thanks for having me i really
enjoyed the conversation and we're
looking forward to it and
thanks everyone who's listening cheers
well what did you think of that
conversation
it was cool to hear about andrew's
experiences in different dows from the
grant distribution platform git coin to
the pleaser dow cultural artifact
collective it was also interesting to
hear about an unknown side of
championing proposals for daos
that not everybody will always be in
agreeance with you and it was just kind
of awesome to hear andrew share insights
about a radical group of crypto native
and non-natives who are new to the space
who believe in doing crazy cool stuff
with that i want to thank you so much
for taking the time to listen to the
smart economy podcast this was the
fourth and final episode of our
inaugural series focusing on dows
and we're already working on the next
series for the smart economy podcast if
you liked what you heard and want to
support the show please keep neo news
today in mind when voting for your neo
council representative as part of neo's
governance process we appreciate you and
we look forward to catching you next
time